Sortby component documentation (#6986)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/ui_comp_guide/components/ui-sortby.md

---
group: ui-components-guide
title: Sortby component
contributor_name: Shankar Konar
contributor_link: https://github.com/konarshankar07
---

> The Sortby component allows to sort the column in ascending or descending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sortby component allows you to sort the column in ascending or descending order.
```

## Configuration options

|      Option              |   Description                                                         |      Type      |  Default Value |
|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------| ---------------|

> | template                 | Path to the component’s <code>.html</code> template.                  | String         | ui/grid/sortBy |

Reviewer: Please use the inline code format for options and default examples.

```suggestion
| `template`                 | Path to the component `.html` template.                  | String         | `ui/grid/sortBy` |
```

> | `options`                  | List of options available for sorting.                                        | Array          | `-`              |

Reviewer: If this is not an actual default, you don't need the inline code formatting for the `-`.

```suggestion
| `options`                  | List of options available for sorting.                                        | Array          | `-`              |
```

> | `options`                  | List of options available for sorting.                                        | Array          | `-`              |

Reviewer 2: Please, use the exact default value

```suggestion
| `options`                  | List of options available for sorting.                                        | Array          | `[]`              |
```

Reviewer 3: Change has been applied

> | `applied`                  | Currently applied sorting.                                                    | Object         | `-`              |

Reviewer 2: Please, use the exact default value
```suggestion
| `applied`                  | Currently applied sorting.                                                    | Object         | `{}`              |
```

Reviewer 3: Change has been applied

> | sorting                  | Column's sorting order. Can be ascending (`asc`), descending (`desc`).| String         | asc            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sorting`                  | Specify ascending (`asc`) or descending (`desc`) sorting order for the column.| String         | `asc`            |
```
